#### Setting
We consider a drug development program with one exploratory phase II and one confirmatory phase III trial, which are performed independently with the same time-to-event primary endpoint and the same population. The phase II trial is a three-arm randomized trial, with 1:1:1 sample size allocation, followed by a decision rule, whether or not a phase III trial is conducted. The phase III trial can have two or three arms. Program success is the joint event of going to phase III and declaring one treatment significantly superior to the control. HR<sub>k</sub> is the true hazard ratio, i.e., the ratio between the hazard function for the experimental treatment k=1, 2 and the control group. We require that only promising treatments lead to a phase III trial: if the estimate of the HR of a treatment in phase II undershoots a predefined threshold value HR<sub>go</sub>, the treatment is declared to be promising. In case of a go decision, the calculation of the sample size for phase III is based on the promising treatment effect estimates of phase II: for a 1:1 two-arm phase III trial the calculation of the sample size is based on the maximum of the treatment effect estimates of phase II and orientated on the Schoenfeld (1981) formula, for a three-arm phase III trial the minimum of the treatment effect estimates, the formula of Horn and Vollandt (1998) and 1:1:1 allocation ratio is used. In a two-arm phase III trail the log-rank test is performed, which controls the type-I error by &alpha; with 1- &beta; power. In a three-arm phase III trial the Dunnett test (Dunnett, 1995) is conducted controlling the family wise error rate by &alpha; in the strong sense (Magirr et al. 2012) with 1-&beta; any-pair power. In case the trial is successful, it is assumed that the amount of benefit depends on the value of the observed treatment effect in phase III: orientated on a report of the IQWiG (2016), three effect size categories (small, medium, large) and associated benefit categories (b<sub>1</sub>, b<sub>2</sub>,b<sub>3</sub>) are defined. Optimal designs are determined by maximizing the expected utility over n<sub>2</sub> and HR<sub>go</sub>.

#### Instructions
1. Choose whether you want to investigate the design parameters of Strategy 1 only, Strategy 2 only or both.
2. Select the range of n<sub>2</sub> and HR<sub>go</sub> over which the optimization is performed.
3. Specify all other drug development program parameters.
4. Choose if the table of the results should be refreshed (do not show previous results) or not (also shows previous results).
5. Choose if a plot of the optimization region (of the "better" Strategy) should be plotted.
6. Click on "Go" and wait until results are presented in the table below (it may take some minutes).


