### Optimal Designs for Phase II/III Drug Development Programs including methods for discounting of phase II results

Further reading: Stella Preussler, Marietta Kirchner, Heiko Goette, Meinhard Kieser. Optimal designs for phase II/III drug development programs including methods for discounting of phase II results. Submitted to peer-review journal.

#### Summary
This shiny App is a tool for phase II/III drug development planning aiming to optimize the sample size allocation and go/no-go decision rule with respect to the maximal expected utility. The approach is based on a utility function taking into account, e.g., fixed and variable costs of the program (c<sub>02</sub>, c<sub>03</sub>, c<sub>2</sub> , c<sub>3</sub>), expected benefits after successful market launch (b<sub>1</sub>, b<sub>2</sub>, b<sub>3</sub>), assumed true hazard rate (HR), and event rates in phase II and III (&xi;<sub>i</sub>, i=2,3). The considered drug development program consists of one phase II trial possibly followed (in case of a go-decision after phase II) by a phase III trial.
A treatment effect estimate from phase II that lead to go decision generally overestimates the true treatment effect, resulting in an underpowered phase III trial. Therefore, bias adjustment methods are applied to the treatment effect estimate of phase II used for the calculation of the number of events for phase III.  In particular, two (1. multiplicative by Wang et al. (2006) and 2. additive by Kirby et al. (2012)) bias adjustment methods are adapted so that optimization over their parameters can be done: 1. Multiplicative adjustment is done by multiplying the treatment effect estimate of phase II with a retention factor &lambda;.  2. Additive adjustment is done by using the lower bound of the 1-&alpha;<sub>CI</sub> confidence interval of the treatment effect estimate. 

