#### Setting
We consider a drug development program with one exploratory phase II and one confirmatory phase III trial, which are performed independently with the same time-to-event primary endpoint and the same population. The phase II trial is a two-arm randomized trial followed by a decision rule, whether or not a phase III trial (RCT) is conducted. Program success is the joint event of going to phase III and declaring the treatment significant superior to the control. The treatment effect is measured by &theta;=-log(HR), where HR is the true hazard ratio, i.e., the ratio between the hazard function for the experimental treatment and the control group. We require that only promising treatments lead to a phase III trial: if the treatment effect estimate of phase II &theta;&#770;<sub>2</sub> overshoots a predefined threshold value -log(HR<sub>go</sub>), the treatment is declared to be promising. In case of a go decision, the calculation of the number of events for phase III is based on the promising treatment effect estimate of phase II by the Schoenfeld (1981) formula and the log-rank test is performed, which controls the type-I error by &alpha; and aims at 1- &beta; power. As treatment effect estimates after decision rules generally overestimate the true treatment effect, the multiplicatively (&theta;&#770;<sub>2</sub>&sdot;&lambda;) and the additively adjusted treatment effect estimator (&theta;&#770;<sub>2</sub> - z<sub>1-&alpha;<sub>CI</sub></sub>&sdot; &radic; 4/d<sub>2</sub>,  z<sub>y</sub> is the y quantile of the standard normal distribution) is used for the calculation of the number of events for phase III, respectively. To compute the variable per-patient costs, the sample size is calculated by dividing the (expected) number of events by the event rate, i.e. n<sub>i</sub> = d<sub>i</sub>/&xi;<sub>i</sub>, i=2,3. In case of program success, we assume that the amount of benefit depends on the value of the observed treatment effect in phase III. Orientated on a report of the German Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health products, three effect size categories (small, medium, large) and associated benefit categories (b<sub>1</sub>, b<sub>2</sub>, b<sub>3</sub>) are defined by threshold values (1, 0.95, 0.85) which have to be undershoot by the upper boundary of the two sided (1-&alpha;)-confidence interval of the HR in phase III (IQWiG, 2016). The optimization is simultaneous done over HR<sub>go</sub>, d<sub>2</sub> and &lambda; or &alpha;<sub>CI</sub>, respectively.


#### Instructions
1. Select the range of d<sub>2</sub>, HR<sub>go</sub> and &lambda; and/or &alpha;<sub>CI</sub> over which the optimization is performed.
2. Specify all other drug development program parameters.
3. Choose if the table of the results should be refreshed (do not show previous results) or not (also shows previous results).
4. Choose if a plot of the optimization region should be plotted.
5. Click on "Go" and wait until results are presented in the table below.

